hello my son thank you very much for
everybody who sent in their questions to
top rock smart and I love back graphic
and make sure when you voted the winning
question this week is the first one what
is the probabilities I have the same pin
as somebody else so to start with we're
going to keep things really simple and
just allow any possible PIN number so we
have four places and our pin number 18
is it's four digits as each of those
places you have three to ten you can go
one two three four five six seven eight
nine zero lovely Tim part I've two on
here so slot number one we have a choice
ten digits so that's one in ten so one
in ten chance for the first digit to be
the same then we go to our second digit
again we're allowing more possible
combinations we can pick we have another
ten choices so there's a one in ten
chance again the same second digit
saying for the third thing for the form
and to get the probability you just
multiply these together give one in
10,000 allowing all possible ten the
chance that anyone opposes the same one
as me is one in 10,000 for our second
calculation we can make being slightly
more complicated not much but just a
little bit and what we can say and the
second instance is once you pick the
number you can't pick that number again
so to the first digit of our 10 we still
have 10 choices but then for the second
one we can't pick the number we've
already picked because that's the rule
that we've set out for this particular
calculation so if you are nine toasters
and again can't take either of those two
numbers to that a and then only seven
left of last one and I give the final
probability are ten times nine is ninety
times eighty seven twenty times seven is
five thousand and forty so just by
having a very simple rule that we can't
use a number again once you've used it
the first time we've already won with
half the amount of possible PIN number
so half of probabilities from after the
same one that we think we're now going
to introduce a different rule so before
we said once you use a number can't use
it again this time what we're going to
say is you have a number in your first
lock and then your second slot come pick
the same number that's fine so you could
go one and then one that's okay but that
third slot can't be another one yeah we
just try to remove some of the very
simple basic pins that people probably
wouldn't pick and to work out how this
rule is going to affect the probability
we're going to draw a probability tree
so here is my usually gone probability
tree and in each node I'm making the
decision that is is the next digit the
same as the one before it or it is
different so as to say see for different
and I filled in all the probabilities so
at each point thinking the same number
there's just a one in ten times
different nine out of ten so this tree
gives all the possibilities you can have
through all four spaces in your pin
number and then we've got the
probabilities going down each root
bitten out here and all we have to do
now is see which root violates our rule
and which we don't
so the top one is for numbered order
saying that bad con of that breaks our
rules of only allowing two consecutive
ones the same and not three so kind of
that the next one we can't have done
either is you've got the
three Tuesday the next one down is okay
we've got a number and then the same but
there's a different number so that's
fine the next one again is a K the next
one down this one's interesting because
we've got a number to give with then
something different and the third one is
the same as a second and the fourth is
the same as the third so that's actually
not allowed next one's okay that's okay
that's okay so only needs two allowed be
three roots and so he's discarding the
10,000 combinations the amount of
possibilities from these three so this
one has had its own having 90 and this
will also have 92 that's 190 of the
10,000 that are not allowed under our
rule so that leaves 9810 possible pin
numbers and to the probability that
somebody else has they pin at me under
these literals it's just one over nine
thousand eight hundred texts now the
fourth and final example I'm going to go
through is again a little bit more
complicated rule we're going to
implement is you're not allowed a
consecutive set of numbers and this can
be increasing or decreasing making it a
little bit easier we're going to have
the digits being cyclic so from 9 don't
a 0 is not allowed that counts as a
consecutive number now first decision we
picked off first digit and the second
digit can either be consecutive or not
so you can go up or you can go down so
that's two possibilities out of 10 for
it being consecutive going to see after
being non-consecutive that's remaining 8
we can then fill in the rest of the tree
now and work out all our probabilities
then we have to go through each one and
see which one is allowed which ones
aren't so if we keep the rules very very
simple and say you cannot have a
consecutive number that's just this
possible which gives us five thousand
one hundred and twenty possibilities are
allowed probabilities one in five
thousand one hundred twenty but that's a
little bit too simple just crossing them
all off and around one branch so what
it's like before and we said we could
have two numbers being the same when the
third one has to be different let's say
we can have two consecutive numbers to
like one and then two but then we can't
then have another consecutive number so
with this rule we have to work through
each branch individually so anything the
first number five we are then allowed
having setting them but that's okay
having answers detectives not allowed
cross that one next any we want
consecutive we noticed is no bye-bye
Safety's assistive non-sexist that fight
in vain sensitive masochist 66 is
non-breakfast and those non master code
number number six is negative that's not
not allowed so it's very similar to the
one that we just give this is allowed is
allowed izl so with our fourth and final
rule we removed about ten percent of the
possible ten numbers to give a
probability of one in nine thousand two
hundred and eighty and so as we've seen
depending on which rules you pick will
depend on which pin numbers are allowed
and therefore what the probability is
that somebody else is the same parachute
thanks everyone for watching I hope
we've answered the question thanks for
sending the
students keep them coming in of course
because we're going to be doing this
every few weeks so keep sending those
questions to at tom rocks max twitter
facebook instagram tom rocks max calm
anything you want send me your questions
and again next week we'll pick the top
three we'll put them to a low you guys
vote and then I'll answer your question
again thank you
you